# Ring of Shooting Stars

- **Rarity:** Very Rare
- **Type:** Ring
- **Attunement:** Yes
- **Source:** 5.2 SRD (D&D 2024)

You can cast Dancing Lights or Light from the ring. The ring has 6 charges and regains 1d6 expended charges daily at dawn. You can expend its charges to use the properties below. Faerie Fire. You can expend 1 charge to cast Faerie Fire from the ring. Lightning Spheres. You can expend 2 charges as a Magic action to create up to four 3-foot-diameter spheres of lightning. Each sphere appears in an unoccupied space you can see within 120 feet of yourself. The spheres last as long as you maintain Concentration, up to 1 minute. Each sphere sheds Dim Light in a 30-foot radius. As a Bonus Action, you can move each sphere up to 30 feet, but no farther than 120 feet away from yourself. The first time the sphere comes within 5 feet of a creature other than you that isn't behind Total Cover, the sphere discharges lightning at that creature and disappears. That creature makes a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes Lightning damage based on the number of spheres you created, as shown in the following table. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage. Shooting Stars. You can expend 1 to 3 charges as a Magic action. For every charge you expend, you launch a glowing mote of light from the ring at a point you can see within 60 feet of yourself. Each creature in a 15-foot Cube originating from that point is showered in sparks and makes a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d4 Radiant damage on a failed save or half as much damage on a successful one.
