# Blue Rose

- **Rarity:** Rare
- **Type:** Wondrous Item
- **Attunement:** No
- **Source:** Vault of Magic

The petals of this cerulean flower can be prepared into a compote and consumed. A single flower can make 3 doses. When you consume a dose, your Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores are reduced by 1 each. This reduction lasts until you finish a long rest. You can consume up to three doses as part of casting a spell, and you can choose to affect your spell with one of the following options for each dose you consumed: - If the spell is of the abjuration school, increase the save DC by 2.
- If the spell has more powerful effects when cast at a higher level, treat the spell's effects as if you had cast the spell at one slot level higher than the spell slot you used.
- The spell is affected by one of the following metamagic options, even if you aren't a sorcerer: heightened, quickened, or subtle. A spell can't be affected by the same option more than once, though you can affect one spell with up to three different options. If you consume one or more doses without casting a spell, you can choose to instead affect a spell you cast before you finish a long rest. In addition, consuming blue rose gives you some protection against spells. When a spellcaster you can see casts a spell, you can use your reaction to cause one of the following:
- You have advantage on the saving throw against the spell if it is a spell of the abjuration school.
- If the spell is counterspell or dispel magic, the DC increases by 2 to interrupt your spellcasting or to end a magic effect on you. You can use this reaction a number of times equal to the number of doses you consumed. At the end of each long rest, you must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, your Hit Dice maximum is reduced by 25 percent. This reduction affects only the number of Hit Dice you can use to regain hit points during a short rest; it doesn't reduce your hit point maximum. This reduction lasts until you recover from the addiction. If you have no remaining Hit Dice to lose, you suffer one level of exhaustion, and your Hit Dice are returned to 75 percent of your maximum Hit Dice. The process then repeats until you die from exhaustion or you recover from the addiction. On a successful save, your exhaustion level decreases by one level. If a successful saving throw reduces your level of exhaustion below 1, you recover from the addiction. A greater restoration spell or similar magic ends the addiction and its effects. Consuming at least one dose of blue rose again halts the effects of the addiction for 2 days, at which point you can consume another dose of blue rose to halt it again or the effects of the addiction continue as normal.
