# Soul Bond Chalice

- **Rarity:** Very Rare
- **Type:** Wondrous Item
- **Attunement:** No
- **Source:** Vault of Magic

The broad, shallow bowl of this silver chalice rests in the outstretched wings of the raven figure that serves as the chalice's stem. The raven's talons, perched on a branch, serve as the chalice's base. A pair of interlocking gold rings adorn the sides of the bowl. As a 1-minute ritual, you and another creature that isn't a construct or undead and that has an Intelligence of 6 or higher can fill the chalice with wine and mix in three drops of blood from each of you. You and the other participant can then drink from the chalice, mingling your spirits and creating a magical connection between you. This connection is unaffected by distance, though it ceases to function if you aren't on the same plane of existence. The bond lasts until one or both of you end it of your own free will (no action required), one or both of you use the chalice to bond with another creature, or one of you dies. You and your bonded partner each gain the following benefits: - You are proficient in each saving throw that your bonded partner is proficient in.
- If you are within 5 feet of your bonded partner and you fail a saving throw, your bonded partner can make the saving throw as well. If your bonded partner succeeds, you can choose to succeed on the saving throw that you failed.
- You can use a bonus action to concentrate on the magical bond between you to determine your bonded partner's status. You become aware of the direction and distance to your bonded partner, whether they are unharmed or wounded, any conditions that may be currently affecting them, and whether or not they are afflicted with an addiction, curse, or disease. If you can see your bonded partner, you automatically know this information just by looking at them.
- If your bonded partner is wounded, you can use a bonus action to take 4d8 slashing damage, healing your bonded partner for the same amount. If your bonded partner is reduced to 0 hit points, you can do this as a reaction.
- If you are under the effects of a spell that has a duration but doesn't require concentration, you can use an action to touch your bonded partner to share the effects of the spell with them, splitting the remaining duration (rounded down) between you. For example, if you are affected by the mage armor spell and it has 4 hours remaining, you can use an action to touch your bonded partner to give them the benefits of the mage armor spell, reducing the duration to 2 hours on each of you.
- If your bonded partner dies, you must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, you drop to 0 hit points. On a success, you are stunned until the end of your next turn by the shock of the bond suddenly being broken. Once the chalice has been used to bond two creatures, it can't be used again until 7 days have passed.
