# Staff of Spores

- **Rarity:** Rare
- **Type:** Staff
- **Attunement:** No
- **Source:** Vault of Magic

Mold and mushrooms coat this gnarled wooden staff. The staff has 10 charges for the following properties. It regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff rots into tiny clumps of slimy, organic matter and is destroyed. Mushroom Disguise. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend 2 charges to cover yourself and anything you are wearing or carrying with a magical illusion that makes you look like a mushroom for up to 1 hour. You can appear to be a mushroom of any color or shape as long as it is no more than one size larger or smaller than you. This illusion ends early if you move or speak. The changes wrought by this effect fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, if you appear to have a spongy cap in place of your head, someone touching the cap would feel your face or hair instead. Otherwise, a creature must take an action to visually inspect the illusion and succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that you are disguised. Speak with Plants. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend 1 of its charges to cast the speak with plants spell from it. Spore Cloud. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend 3 charges to release a cloud of spores in a 20-foot radius from you. The spores remain for 1 minute, making the area lightly obscured for creatures other than you. The cloud moves with you, remaining centered on you. When a creature, other than you, enters the cloud of spores for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, that creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or take 1d6 poison damage and become poisoned until the start of its next turn. A wind of at least 10 miles per hour disperses the spores and ends the effect.
