# Staff of Master Lu Po

- **Rarity:** Legendary
- **Type:** Staff
- **Attunement:** No
- **Source:** Vault of Magic

This plain-looking, wooden staff can be wielded as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. The staff has 12 charges and regains 1d6 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the staff retains its +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls, loses all other properties, and the next time you roll a 20 on an attack roll using the staff, it explodes, dealing an extra 6d6 force damage to the target then is destroyed. On a 20, the staff regains 1d10 + 2 charges. Some of the staff ’s properties require the target to make a saving throw to resist or lessen the property’s effects. The saving throw DC is equal to 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier. Bamboo in the Rainy Season. While holding the staff, you can use a bonus action to expend 1 charge to grant the staff the reach property until the start of your next turn. Gate to the Hell of Being Roasted Alive. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend 1 charge to cast the scorching ray spell from it. When you make the spell’s attacks, you use your Wisdom modifier as your spellcasting ability. Iron Whirlwind. While holding the staff, you use an action to expend 2 charges, causing weighted chains to extend from the end of the staff and reducing your speed to 0 until the end of your next turn. As part of the same action, you can make one attack with the staff against each creature within your reach. If you roll a 1 on any attack, you must immediately make an attack roll against yourself as well before resolving any other attacks against opponents. Monkey Steals the Peach. While holding the staff, you can use a bonus action to expend 1 charge to extend sharp, grabbing prongs from the end of the staff. Until the start of your next turn, each time you hit a creature with the staff, the target takes piercing damage instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for the staff, and the target must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, the target is incapacitated until the end of its next turn as it suffers crippling pain. On a success, the target has disadvantage on its next attack roll. Rebuke the Disobedient Child. When you are hit by a creature you can see within your reach while holding this staff, you can use a reaction to expend 1 charge to make an attack with the staff against the attacker. Seven Vengeful Demons Death Strike. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend 7 charges and make one attack against a target within 5 feet of you with the staff. If the attack hits, the target takes bludgeoning damage as normal, and it must make a Constitution saving throw, taking 7d8 necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. If the target dies from this damage, the staff ceases to function as anything other than a magic quarterstaff until the next dawn, but it regains all expended charges when its powers return. A humanoid killed by this damage rises at the start of your next turn as a zombie that is permanently under your command, following your verbal orders to the best of its ability. Swamp Hag's Deadly Breath. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend 2 charges to expel a 15-foot cone of poisonous gas out of the end of the staff. Each creature in the area must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature takes 4d6 poison damage and is poisoned for 1 hour. On a success, a creature takes half the damage and isn’t poisoned. Vaulting Leap of the Clouds. If you are holding the staff and it has at least 1 charge, you can cast the jump spell from it as a bonus action at will without using any charges, but you can target only yourself when you do so.
