# Staff of the Scion

- **Rarity:** Very Rare
- **Type:** Staff
- **Attunement:** No
- **Source:** Vault of Magic

This unwholesome staff is crafted of a material that appears to be somewhere between weathered wood and dried meat. It weeps beads of red liquid that are thick and sticky like tree sap but smell of blood. A crystalized yellow eye with a rectangular pupil, like the eye of a goat, sits at its top. You can wield the staff as a magic quarterstaff that grants a +1 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with it. The staff has 10 charges for the following properties. It regains 1d6 + 4 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last charge, roll a d20. On a 1, the eye liquifies as the staff shrivels and twists into a blackened, smoking ruin and is destroyed. Ember Cloud. While holding the staff, you can use an action and expend 2 charges to release a cloud of burning embers from the staff. Each creature within 10 feet of you must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The ember cloud remains until the start of your next turn, making the area lightly obscured for creatures other than you. A wind of at least 10 miles per hour disperses the cloud and ends the effect. Fiery Strike. When you hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can expend 1 charge to deal an extra 2d6 fire damage to the target. If you take fire damage while wielding the staff, you have advantage on attack rolls with it until the end of your next turn. While holding the staff, you have resistance to fire damage. Spells. While holding the staff, you can use an action to expend 1 or more of its charges to cast one of the following spells from it, using your spell save DC: augury (2 charges), barkskin (2 charges), confusion (4 charges), entangle (1 charge), or wall of fire (4 charges).
