# Talisman of the Snow Queen

- **Rarity:** Very Rare
- **Type:** Wondrous Item
- **Attunement:** Yes
- **Source:** Vault of Magic

The coldly beautiful and deadly Snow Queen (see Tome of Beasts) grants these delicate-looking snowflake-shaped mithril talismans to her most trusted spies and servants. Each talisman is imbued with a measure of her power and is magically tied to the queen. It can be affixed to any piece of clothing or worn as an amulet. While wearing the talisman, you gain the following benefits: • You have resistance to cold damage. • You have advantage on Charisma checks when interacting socially with creatures that live in cold environments, such as frost giants, winter wolves, and fraughashar (see Tome of Beasts). • You can use an action to cast the ray of frost cantrip from it at will, using your level and using Intelligence as your spellcasting ability. Blinding Snow. While wearing the talisman, you can use an action to create a swirl of snow that spreads out from you and into the eyes of nearby creatures. Each creature within 15 feet of you must succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or be blinded until the end of its next turn. Once used, this property can’t be used again until the next dawn. Eyes of the Queen. While you are wearing the talisman, the Snow Queen can use a bonus action to see through your eyes if both of you are on the same plane of existence. This effect lasts until she ends it as a bonus action or until you die. You can’t make a saving throw to prevent the Snow Queen from seeing through your eyes. However, being more than 5 feet away from the talisman ends the effect, and becoming blinded prevents her from seeing anything further than 10 feet away from you. When the Snow Queen is looking through your eyes, the talisman sheds an almost imperceptible pale blue glow, which you or any creature within 10 feet of you notice with a successful DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check. An identify spell fails to reveal this property of the talisman, and this property can’t be removed from the talisman except by the Snow Queen herself.
